Hello friends
In this video let us discuss about type conversion
So A type conversion is nothing but converting one data type
to another
It is sometimes automatically done by the compiler and sometimes
it is manually done by the programmer
That is implicit type conversion and explicit type conversion
Let us first discuss about implicit type conversion so it
is automatically done by the compiler
Actually we have an order for these data types starting
from the lower level to higher level
Also when do we need to convert data types? It
is when we have different data types coming in
a single expression
So if an expression has more than two types all
the data types of the variables are upgraded to the
data type of the variable with the largest data type
So if we have float and smaller level data types
like int, char, long etcetera in a single expression all
those will be converted to float first. see an example
we have float f= 1.5 int i= 200
Char c = a. and there is an expression
f+i+c. So a float+int + char  will result
in which datatype? since we are discussing about automatic
or implicit conversion
It will take the largest datatype which is float
here and convert every other data type to float and
the result will be in float
So f is already float and is equal to 1.50000
and int 100 will now be in float 100.0000 and
character c which is a  will now be the float
value 97.0000. Please note that 97 is they ASCII
value of 'a'
Now the sum will be 1.5000 + 100.0000 plus
97.0000 which will be 198.50000. Now see another example
We have int i=100 char c= a and
we have int ins = i-c
So here the largest datatype is int
So the character type c will be upgraded to integer
type first
So i is already the integer 100 and now the
character c which is a
will now be the integer 97 which is it's
ascii value and the result will be 100 - 97
Which is 3. Now let us discuss about explicit type conversion
or we can call it typecasting
Here
A datatype is converted to another type manually
and the syntax for that is writing the data type
name with in parenthesis
Before the expression
For example we have float ans = 10/3
So here 10  and 3 are integers
So 10/3 will also be an integer
and we will get three and it will be stored
in float ans.
So when we print we will get 3.0. But it
is not the right answer. is it ? We want the
actual result as a floating point
number
So let us typecast it so that we will get it
right
The typecast integer 3
to float
So we have 10/ (float) followed by 3
So we will get the result 3.3333 printed now which
is the actual result
So that is how we can perform explicit type conversion
or typecasting
So today we have discussed about type conversion which is
converting a data type to another type
It can automatically be done by the compiler or manually
performed by the programmer.